Quote	Verb	Type	Author	Title	Page	Original Publication Date	Original Publisher	Reprint Collection	Reprint Publisher	Reprint Publication Date	Pseudonymn																

[S]he did not cry. She did not, of course, realize that she was to stay here indefinitely, but if she had, even at that age she would hardly have shed tears, she was always too eager, too curious to know, to taste what was going to happen next.	scoop	literature	Jessie Redmon Fauset	&ldquo;The Sleeper Wakes&raquo	2	1920	The Crisis	The Sleeper Wakes: Harlem Rennaissance Stories by Women	Rutgers University Press	1993																	

A woman who deals in poison cannot be trusted, whatever she says.	mix	literature	Mary Ellen Bamford	Father Lambert&rsquo;s Family: A Story of Old-Time France	63	1888	Phillips & Hunt																				

Alert for any sound of footfalls nigh, she holds her breath to listen. Her right hand rests on a long knife in her belt.	cut	literature	Zitk‡la-_‡	&ldquo;A Warrior&rsquo;s Daughter, &ldquo;American Indian Stories&rdquo;	146	1921	Hayworth Publishing				Gertrude Bonnin																

For the first time in many years the tired woman rested, body and heart and brain.	move	literature	Isabella Macdonald Alden	The King&rsquo;s Daughter	13	1873	D. Lothrop & Co.		Creation House	1992																	

From her unerring long knife the enemy falls heavily at her feet.	cut	literature	Zitk‡la-_‡	&ldquo;A Warrior&rsquo;s Daughter, &ldquo;American Indian Stories&rdquo;	151	1921	Hayworth Publishing				Gertrude Bonnin																

From now on until death she was going to have flower dust and springtime sprinkled over everything.	pour	literature	Zora Neale Hurston	Their Eyes Were Watching God	32	1937	"J.B. Lippincott, Inc."		Harper Perennial	2006																	

Her old thoughts were going to come in handy now, but new words would have to be made and said to fit them.	mix	literature	Zora Neale Hurston	Their Eyes Were Watching God	32	1937	"J.B. Lippincott, Inc."		Harper Perennial	2006																	

I don&rsquo;t even remember of feeling &ldquo;drunk.&rdquo; What kind of a feeling is it? 	shake	literature	S. Alice Callahan	Wynema: A Child of the Forest	43	1891	H.J. Smith 		University Nebraska Press	1997																	

If only women could bring into their homes this self-sacrificing attitude toward life! Isn&rsquo;t it just as satisfying to the soul to feel you have scrubbed a floor faithfully as to be mistress of the house?	put	literature	Anzia Yezierska	Arrogant Beggar	77	1927	Double Day																				

Intuitions are given to women, not because they are the weaker sex, but because they are the mothers of the world, and they are thus given the strongest protection against unseen and unseeable evils.	throw	literature	Lilian Lida Bell	Angela&rsquo;s Quest	135	1910	Duffield & Co.				Mrs. Arthur Hoyte Bogue																

She and her children have eggs and buttered rolls for breakfast each morning like millionaires.	pour	literature	Anzia Yezierska	&ldquo;The Fat of the Land&rdquo;	79	1920	Houghton Mifflin	How I Found America: Collected Stories of Anzia Yezierska	Persea Books	1991																	

She did not talk to people as if they were strange hard shells she had to crack open to get inside. She talked as if she were already in the shell. In their very shell.	peel	literature	Marita Bonner	&ldquo;Nothing New&rdquo;	121	1926	The Crisis	The Sleeper Wakes: Harlem Rennaissance Stories by Women	Rutgers University Press	1993																	

She had an inside and an outside now and suddenly she knew how not to mix them.	mix	literature	Zora Neale Hurston	Their Eyes Were Watching God	72	1937	"J.B. Lippincott, Inc."		Harper Perennial	2006																	

She has a way of getting an idea and letting it simmer on the back of her brain, as you may say, when nobody knows it&rsquo;s been cooking at all, and then suddenly bringing it out cooked and seasoned and ready to serve.	turn-on	literature	Mary Roberts Rinehart	Tish	107	1912	Curtis Publishing		Houghton Mifflin	1916																	

She lost her soul. 	empty	literature	Kate Langley Bosher	People Like That	132	1916	Harper & Brothers																				

She was living in bad society; and imaginary though it was, its influence affected her, for she was feeding heart and fancy on dangerous and unsubstantial food, and was fast brushing the innocent bloom from her nature by a premature acquaintance with the darker side of life	squeeze	literature	Louisa May Alcott	"Little Women or Meg, Jo, Beth, and Amy"	330	1868-69	Roberts Brothers		"Sampson Low, Marston, Low, and Searle"	1872																	

So gradually, she pressed her teeth together and learned to hush.	press	literature	Zora Neale Hurston	Their Eyes Were Watching God	71	1937	"J.B. Lippincott, Inc."		Harper Perennial	2006																	

That frail, bent old thing making of her nothing a feast of plenty, feeding with it little hungry mouths that never had enough.	fill	literature	Anzia Yezierska	Arrogant Beggar	225	1927	Double Day																				

Women have washed and baked, scrubbed, cried and prayed themselves into their graves for thousands of years, and no person has written a book advising them not to work too hard	wash	literature	Olive San Louie Anderson	"An American Girl, and Her Four Years in a Boys&rsquo; College"	98	1878	D. Appleton and Company				SOLA																

Her marriage didn&rsquo;t survive, but her two genetic daughters were given a chance to learn to read and write, cook, garden, and sew. That isn&rsquo;t enough to know in this world, of course, but it&rsquo;s more than most poor people learn.	fill	literature	Octavia Butler	Parable of the Talents	87	1998	Hachette Book Group																				

Adjusting to a marriage with a man who then only wants you to be at home or to cook and raise children is a big shock. Lots of women cannot do it.	take	literature	Qanta Ahmed	In the Land of Invisible Women: A Female Doctor&rsquo;s Journey in the Saudi Kingdom	305	2008	Sourcebooks Inc.																				

Girls, on the other hand, were always cooking, cleaning, sewing, crying, praying, taking care of babies or old people, and going to church.	squeeze	literature	Octavia Butler	Parable of the Talents	326	1998	Hachette Book Group																				

The disgrace of economically independent women exposing themselves by eating in public (instead of within the security of high-walled homes) pained him.	open	literature	Qanta Ahmed	In the Land of Invisible Women: A Female Doctor&rsquo;s Journey in the Saudi Kingdom	212	2008	Sourcebooks Inc.																				

But then you don&rsquo;t see anything to show there are real people living here&#59; even the air itself is empty&#58; no delicious food cooking, no odors, no sounds. Just nothing.	empty	literature	NoViolet Bulawayo	We Need New Names	6	2013	"Little, Brown and Company"																				

What MotherLove does is cook brew in huge metal madramuz by day, and by night people go to her shack to drink.	fill	literature	NoViolet Bulawayo	We Need New Names	72	2013	"Little, Brown and Company"																				

As Ilse saut&eacute;ed garlic and ginger, the kitchen filled with a luxurious, tangy odor. She chopped the pork and set the girls to work on the peppers and scallions and cabbage.	cut	literature	Lynne Sharon Schwartz	&ldquo;Killing the Bees&rdquo; Growing up Ethnic in America: Contemporary Fiction About Learning to Be American"	130	1999	Penguin Books																				

I look closely at her long hand, at the thing she is eating. It&rsquo;s flat, and the outer part is crusty. The top is creamish and looks fluffy and soft, and there are coin-like things on it, a deep pink, the color of burn wounds.	put	literature	NoViolet Bulawayo	We Need New Names	8	2013	"Little, Brown and Company"																				

Their mothers invite me to taste-test their Chinese cooking. &ldquo;Very authentic.&rdquo; I try to be reassuring.	adjust	literature	Gish Jen	&ldquo;What Means Switch&rdquo; Growing up Ethnic in America: Contemporary Fiction About Learning to Be American"	177	1999	Penguin Books																				

Then they carefully chew, tilting their heads to the side as if the food speaks and they are listening to the taste.	close	literature	NoViolet Bulawayo	We Need New Names	163	2013	"Little, Brown and Company"																				

My throat goes dry&semi; my tongue salivates. I am remembering the taste of all these things, but remembering is not tasting, and it is painful.	cut	literature	NoViolet Bulawayo	We Need New Names	211	2013	"Little, Brown and Company"																				

Babies are born and raised, the food is cooked. The world is cleaned and mended and kept in order. Kept sane. That one could live with dignity and joy even in poverty. That even tragedy and shock and loss require this basis of loving attendance.	check	literature	Diane Di Prima	"from My Life as a Woman, Growing up Ethnic in America: Contemporary Fiction About Learning to Be American"	308	1999	Penguin Books																				

I jumped into my shoes, started the coffee, reached for my comb&mdash;all in one breath.	scoop	literature	Anzia Yezierska	Arrogant Beggar	1	1927	Double Day																				

[S]he had stayed up the whole night before, cooking. She&rsquo;d prepared a canned ham with yellow sweet potatoes, wing beans with pork, sweet and sour mustard cabbage, fresh raw yellow-fin, pickled eggplant, and rice with red beans.	fill	literature	Sylvia A. Watanabe	&ldquo;Talking to the Dead&rdquo; Growing up Ethnic in America: Contemporary Fiction About Learning to Be American"	358	1999	Penguin Books																				

The dinner-party broke up in a panic, and from that time my father could not abide the girl.	turn-off	literature	Pauline Hopkins	"Of One Blood Or, The Hidden Self"	51	1902	The Colored American Magazing		Washington Square Press	2004																	

Mrs. Hershbein fried a few pieces of fat with onions to put a meat taste into the barley soup.	fill	literature	Anzia Yezierska	Arrogant Beggar	15	1927	Double Day																				

Like hundreds of chattering sparrows, the girls crowded into the dining room. The smell of steaming potatoes and fried liver!	turn-on	literature	Anzia Yezierska	Arrogant Beggar	30	1927	Double Day																				

I swallowed everything on my plate. The liver tasted better than anything I could cook for myself.	wash	literature	Anzia Yezierska	Arrogant Beggar	32-3	1927	Double Day																				

My body opened a million mouths of famine, sucking in thirstily the softness.	fill	literature	Anzia Yezierska	Arrogant Beggar	38	1927	Double Day																				

Was I to be lost to myself as a servant? Come down from all I dreamed of being to washing dishes, peeling potatoes, taking orders from a mistress?	wash	literature	Anzia Yezierska	Arrogant Beggar	59	1927	Double Day																				

If housework can&rsquo;t lift me, I&rsquo;ll lift housework.	move	literature	Anzia Yezierska	Arrogant Beggar	63-4	1927	Double Day																				

Did I really want to spend every day of my life on nothing more important than cooking things that you eat up anyway?	take	literature	Anzia Yezierska	Arrogant Beggar	66	1927	Double Day																				

And while I was trying to think it out, my soup burned, my milk boiled over, dishes dropped from my hands.	throw	literature	Anzia Yezierska	Arrogant Beggar	66	1927	Double Day																				

There was a fire inside of me that could cook and clean its way into the hearts of people just as if I were an actress on the stage.	insert	literature	Anzia Yezierska	Arrogant Beggar	70	1927	Double Day																				

My dumb lips drinking inspiration out of her lips.	fill	literature	Anzia Yezierska	Arrogant Beggar	77	1927	Double Day																				

Devouring lips that would eat me up if I let them.	take	literature	Anzia Yezierska	Arrogant Beggar	99	1927	Double Day																				

It seemed to me that for ages upon ages I stood there at the sink, washing endless stacks of dishes.	wash	literature	Anzia Yezierska	Arrogant Beggar	165	1927	Double Day																				

I did not neglect to pick my Lizzie a handful of the fruit that had just reached perfect ripeness upon the topmost branches, fruit that customarily we were forced to leave as a little tribute for the thrushes. 	take	literature	Angela Carter	Nights at the Circus	36	1984	Penguin Books																				

She had me sit meself down and have a cup with her, which I did willingly enough, in spite of my trepidtion, for that long walk had worn me out and I was starving hungry.	empty	literature	Angela Carter	Nights at the Circus	57	1984	Penguin Books																				

I saw the old woman peacefully bent over the washtub, near the hot kitchen stove, unmindful of all the noise outside.	wash	literature	Anzia Yezierska	Arrogant Beggar	168	1927	Double Day																				

The baby in one arm. A loaf of bread in the other. In both her hands she clutched her apron with half-peeled potatoes.	scoop	literature	Anzia Yezierska	Arrogant Beggar	184	1927	Double Day																				

My kitchen stint included sexual harassment so common that it became background noise, and a sexual assault, which did not.	turn-off	journalism	Tracie McMillan	&ldquo;When the Kitchen Isn&rsquo;t Safe for Women&rdquo;		30 October 2017	The New York Times																				

Here&rsquo;s how&#58; I bought into the idea that talk in the kitchen was just talk, and that a thick skin would indeed protect me. But it wasn&rsquo;t and it didn&rsquo;t, because a sexualized workplace is a dangerous workplace for women.	squeeze	journalism	Tracie McMillan	&ldquo;When the Kitchen Isn&rsquo;t Safe for Women&rdquo;		30 October 2017	The New York Times																				

When the entire culture of a place is lewd, it makes it impossible to tell which men are dangerous.	dry	journalism	Tracie McMillan	&ldquo;When the Kitchen Isn&rsquo;t Safe for Women&rdquo;		30 October 2017	The New York Times																				

Two-thirds of female restaurant workers reported experiencing sexual harassment from management in a 2014 survey, and 80 percent reported it from co-workers, according to research from advocacy group Restaurant Opportunities Center United.	squeeze	journalism	Tracie McMillan	&ldquo;When the Kitchen Isn&rsquo;t Safe for Women&rdquo;		30 October 2017	The New York Times																				

&ldquo;[T]here is no question that service employees that have come forward with sex harassment allegations in the high-end restaurant industry have been unfairly maligned, especially when it comes to future employment.&rdquo;	flip	journalism	Kitty Greenwald	&ldquo;The Predators in the Kitchen&rdquo;		26 May 2018	The New York Times																				

To me, feasting, feeding and eating with people remains a generous and celebratory act, one I find beautiful. And I know that to succeed in restaurants, which are notoriously challenging both physically and financially, passion is key.	pour	journalism	Kitty Greenwald	&ldquo;The Predators in the Kitchen		26 May 2018	The New York Times																				

A celebrity chef told me that her shirt was ripped off of her when she was working as a line cook early on in her career.	remove	journalism	Kitty Greenwald	&ldquo;The Predators in the Kitchen&rdquo;		26 May 2018	The New York Times																				

In all of my conversations with women in the food industry, I was struck by the pattern of young women who were drawn to restaurants as a possible career&mdash;and who changed their minds after their early experiences.	flip	journalism	Kitty Greenwald	&ldquo;The Predators in the Kitchen&rdquo;		26 May 2018	The New York Times																				

High-end kitchens have long been regarded as a male domain, with culinary students worshiping brutal but allegedly brilliant men...	press	journalism	Jen Agg	&ldquo;Sexism in the Kitchen&rdquo;		19 October 2015	The New York Times																				

Slapping with tongs, snapping bras, relentless grabbing&mdash;women chefs learn quickly to crouch, never bend over, when picking up a pot.	adjust	journalism	Jen Agg	&ldquo;Sexism in the Kitchen&rdquo;		19 October 2015	The New York Times																				

[F]emale chefs on television showcase their skills in their own homes, or sets designed to look like them, reinforcing the notion that that&rsquo;s where women cook.	close	journalism	Marnie Hanel	&ldquo;A Woman&rsquo;s Place is Running the Kitchen&rdquo;		28 March 2014	The New York Times																				

Should home cooks throw out the cookbooks from chefs exposed for regularly grabbing and propositioning women? What if the chef is facing sexual assault charges?	empty	journalism	Kim Severson	&ldquo;Food Writing in the #MeToo Era&rdquo;		16 July 2018	The New York Times																				

The woman was supposed to cook at home, for the family...she had been appointed by the president, and that no one else mattered.	shake	journalism	Elaine Sciolino	&ldquo;Culinary Battles of Mitterand&rsquo;s Chef go From Kitchen to Screen&rdquo;		26 October 2012	The New York Times																				

They nickname her Countess du Barry after the favorite mistress of King Louis XV, and Mamie Nova, after a brand of dairy products that has a grandmother as its logo.	remove	journalism	Elaine Sciolino	&ldquo;Culinary Battles of Mitterand&rsquo;s Chef go From Kitchen to Screen&rdquo;		26 October 2012	The New York Times																				

[S]he becomes a self-righteous Joan of Arc of the kitchen.	check	journalism	Elaine Sciolino	&ldquo;Culinary Battles of Mitterand&rsquo;s Chef go From Kitchen to Screen&rdquo;		26 October 2012	The New York Times																				

[S]he realized early on that to survive in this new job, she needed an old kitchen skill&#58; the ability to appear tough, harsh and thick-skinned. She, like most chefs at the time, had been trained in restaurant kitchens where shouting, sexism and slashing insults were the norm.	take	journalism	Julia Moskin and Kim Severson	&ldquo;April Bloomfield Breaks Her Silence About Harassment at Her Restaurants&rdquo;		16 October 2018	The New York Times																				

It always seems very strange to me that women are home cooking and they don&rsquo;t get paid.	take	journalism	Judy Klemesrud	&ldquo;A Woman Chef at the Waldorf is Hotel&rsquo;s First&rdquo;		12 February 1973	The New York Times																				

[S]he complained she was consigned to an area of the kitchen referred to by her male colleagues as &ldquo;the c*** corner.&rdquo;	squeeze	journalism		&ldquo;Men in Ramsay&rsquo;s Kitchen Made my Life Hell, Says Woman Chef&rdquo;		22 April 2011	The Times																				

They can stand the heat and they have every intention of taking more ground in the kitchen.	turn-on	journalism	Gabriella Bennett	&ldquo;Festival&rsquo;s All-Female Line-up Reflects Change in the Professional Kitchen&rdquo;		1 May 2017	The Times																				

Many women expressed relief that the systemic misogyny and sexual harassment they have experienced in their workplaces have become public knowledge.	wash	journalism	Julia Moskin	&ldquo;Star Sommelier Resigns After Accusations of Sexual Assault&rdquo;		7 November 2019	The New York Times																				

She decided to work harder, knowing that pushing back could put her job in jeopardy.	adjust	journalism	Julia Moskin and Kim Severson	&ldquo;Ken Friedman, Power Restaurateur, Is Accused of Sexual Harassment&rdquo;		12 December 2017	The New York Times																				

&ldquo;&lsquo;Everyone&rsquo; means the male chefs and the male restaurant owners and the male C.F.O.s,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;Advancement is incredibly hard for women in this industry because you never know what the men are saying about you.&rdquo;	press	journalism	Julia Moskin and Kim Severson	&ldquo;Ken Friedman, Power Restaurateur, Is Accused of Sexual Harassment&rdquo;		12 December 2017																					

Interviews with more than 30 women in the industry suggest that sexual harassment is routine and sexual assault is pervasive. Many said they had been assaulted on the job by men they reported to or had professional relationships with.	squeeze	journalism	Julia Moskin	&ldquo;A Celebrity Sommelier Is Accused of Sexual Assault&rdquo;		1 November 2019																					

A former McDonald&rsquo;s employee who says a manager at a Michigan store grabbed her breasts and buttocks is suing the chain, blaming her mistreatment on what she calls a culture of sexual harassment at the fast-food company.	take	journalism	David Yaffe-Bellany	&ldquo;McDonald&rsquo;s Lawsuit Targets ÔPervasive&rsquo; Culture of Sexual Harassment&rdquo;		12 November 2019																					

It isn&rsquo;t just the notoriously sexist culture of restaurant kitchens that is at fault, but the economic structure that turns customers into shadow employers, leaving servers&mdash;so often women&mdash;vulnerable to the predations anyone picking up the bill might feel entitled to exercise.	squeeze	journalism	Ginia Bellafante	&ldquo;When Living on Tips Means Putting Up With Harassment&rdquo;		17 October 2014																					

&ldquo;It&rsquo;s stupid. A chef is a chef.&rdquo;	flip	journalism	Miranda Bryant	&ldquo;Three Michelin Stars! Meet the First Woman to Smash America&rsquo;s Boys&rsquo; Club&rdquo;		11 February 2019	The Guardian																				

Today, Mario Batali surrendered ownership of all of his restaurants. In 2017, @hels wrote about the celebrity chef&rsquo;s long history of disregard for boundaries, and his #MeToo-era reckoning	empty	socialmedia	The New Yorker			6 March 2019																					

&ldquo;The #MeToo movement has uncovered a myriad of abuses in the restaurant industry that must be addressed&rdquo;	turn-on	socialmedia	Time			11 February 2019																					

Mario Batali stepped away from his restaurant empire after several women accused him of sexual harassment and assault. Like some of the men accused of misconduct during the #MeToo movement, Batali faced civil litigation but had avoided criminal charges.	peel	socialmedia	The Boston Globe			22 May 2019																					

EXCLUSIVE: BBC chef who stars in show with Mary Berry banned from own restaurant over sexual harassment claims Dan Doherty, ex-Duck &amp; Waffle head chef, investigated after demanding &ldquo;blow job&rdquo; and asking female staff for sex. #MeToo meets culinary world	remove	socialmedia	Gabriel Pogrund			29 January 2019																					

Shocking tales from the kitchen here&mdash;is the restaurant world having its #MeToo moment?	open	socialmedia	Telegraph Woman			29 January 2019																					

We reached a settlement for 11 former employees of NYC restaurant The Spotted Pig after finding owner Ken Friedman subjected employees to severe incidents of unwanted touching &amp; sexual advances. The survivors will get $240K & a 10-year profit share from the restaurant. #MeToo	wash	socialmedia	NY AG James			7 January 2020																					

Working people should be safe on the job, free from sexual harassment, assault, and other awful behavior/actions. For too long, corporations like McDonald&rsquo;s ignored what happened inside their restaurants. That changes now. #MeToo	mix	socialmedia	Jobs for Justice			23 May 2019																					

The investigation, which began in 2018, also found that employees had endured &ldquo;severe and pervasive incidents of unwanted touching and unwelcome sexual advances&rdquo; by Mario Batali. The inquiry into Mr. Batali remains open.	open	socialmedia	NYT Food			7 January 2020																					

Actions have consequences. Major #WomensHistoryMonth milestone moment for the brave survivors of serial sexual harasser Mario Batali, who sold all shares of his restaurants. May ALL restaurants and kitchens be safe from abuse. #WeSaidEnough #MeToo	cut	socialmedia	Christine Pelosi			6 March 2019																					

A line cook is less likely to pretend a baguette is a penis, but has #MeToo has really changed the restaurant business?	check	socialmedia	Kim Severson			27 September 2019																					

We both agree there have been significant changes since towering culinary figures like John Besh, Mario Batali and Ken Friedman fell after women told their stories about sexual harassment, abuse and assault.	wash	journalism	Kim Severson	&ldquo;How #MeToo Changed Your Lunch&rdquo;		27 September 2019	The New York Times																				

Sexual harassment in the hospitality industry has deep roots tied to racial, gender and economic oppression, she said. A new human resource policy or a pat on the back for an enlightened manager are mere Band-Aids.	insert	journalism	Kim Severson	&ldquo;How #MeToo Changed Your Lunch&rdquo;		27 September 2019	The New York Times																				

&ldquo;Nothing,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;is just about the food anymore.&rdquo;	open	journalism	Kim Severson	&ldquo;How #MeToo Changed Your Lunch&rdquo;			The New York Times																				

Dan Doherty sacked from his own restaurant, The Royal Oak in Marylebone. He left his role at the BBC earlier today. #MeToo meets the British culinary world for the first time	remove	socialmedia	Gabriel Pogrund			28 September 2019																					

I was too busy emulating and living through the toxic kitchen bro culture to see it for what it was. In the wake of the #MeToo, we can&rsquo;t pretend it&rsquo;s okay any longer.	turn	journalism	Naomi Pomeroy	&ldquo;As a Chef and a Woman, I Regret Joining the Boys&rsquo; Club&rdquo;		21 June 2018	Eater New York																				

Celebrity chef Mario Batali will be arraigned Friday in Boston for criminal charges including indecent assault and battery at a Boston restaurant in 2017.  It&rsquo;s the first criminal charge against Batali resulting from several #MeToo allegations. 	peel	socialmedia	Amee Vanderpool			23 May 2019																					

Shocking tales from the kitchen here - is the restaurant world having its #MeToo moment? @Asma_KhanLDN	open	socialmedia	Telegraph Woman			29 January 2019																					

&ldquo;We fought to get a leg up by being &lsquo;one of the guys.&rsquo; We partied with them, let some of them slap us on the ass. We learned that the real way of handling it and getting ahaed was maintaining (if not even creating) the bro code.&rdquo;	squeeze	journalism	Naomi Pomeroy	&ldquo;As a Chef and a Woman, I Regret Joining the Boys&rsquo; Club&rdquo;		21 June 2018	Eater New York																				

I&rsquo;ve long been aware of the exploitation, violence and abuse that goes on behind the scenes of so many top restaurants, and the tales I&rsquo;ve been told by other women in the trade would do more than put you off your food.	put	journalism	Asma Khan	&ldquo;They put her in the fridge and touch her up&rdquo;: Is the restaurant world having its #MeToo moment?"		29 January 2019	The Telegraph																				

&ldquo;Men yelled and screamed and got fawning profiles. Why shouldn&rsquo;t I behave the way I saw worked for them? I was one of them, I thought.&rdquo;	throw	journalism	Naomi Pomeroy	&ldquo;As a Chef and a Woman, I Regret Joining the Boys&rsquo; Club&rdquo;		21 June 2018	Eater New York																				

&ldquo;As women leaders in our industry, it is our duty to put into place a new set of rules. Let&rsquo;s all rethink and redefine what &lsquo;after-hours super fun shit&rsquo; really means. We&rsquo;ve come too far to turn back now.&rdquo;	adjust	journalism	Naomi Pomeroy	&ldquo;As a Chef and a Woman, I Regret Joining the Boys&rsquo; Club&rdquo;		21 June 2018	Eater New York																				

I know of one woman who worked in a top fine dining establishment in an upmarket neighbourhood of London. Each day when she arrived at her workplace, the morning ritual to which she was subjected was a huge, hard slap on the back from the head chef. It was obvious the violence, not to mention the power imbalance, gave him pleasure.	squeeze	journalism	Asma Khan	&ldquo;They put her in the fridge and touch her up&rdquo;: Is the restaurant world having its #MeToo moment?"		29 January 2019	The Telegraph																				

Another chef told me she&rsquo;d been sent inappropriate and suggestive text messages by a celebrity chef whom she worked for. But she was too scared to breathe a word of it, fearing she&rsquo;d never get a reference. Instead she sat it out for a year until she found a better place to move on to.	dry	journalism	Asma Khan	&ldquo;They put her in the fridge and touch her up&rdquo;: Is the restaurant world having its #MeToo moment?"		29 January 2019	The Telegraph																				

&ldquo;But hurting people was never actually character-building, and, certainly, sexualizing subordinates was never making the work better.&rdquo;	check	journalism	Jen Agg	&ldquo;It&rsquo;s not Just &lsquo;Kitchen Talk,&rsquo; it&rsquo;s Abuse&rdquo;		6 September 2018	Eater New York																				

It&rsquo;s not only physical and sexual abuse, but sometimes also racial. One female chef from South Africa was called a &ldquo;black b----&rdquo;when she first came to work in a restaurant kitchen in London. Her colleagues who heard this just laughed.	peel	journalism	Asma Khan	&ldquo;They put her in the fridge and touch her up&rdquo;: Is the restaurant world having its #MeToo moment?"		29 January 2019	The Telegraph																				

Meanwhile, a friend of mine will regularly walk into the kitchen she works in, where the chefs will pick her up, put her in the walk-in fridge and touch her up.	squeeze	journalism	Asma Khan	&ldquo;They put her in the fridge and touch her up&rdquo;: Is the restaurant world having its #MeToo moment?"		29 January 2019	The Telegraph																				

There&rsquo;s something like a wolf pack mentality at times, with the men ganging up to undermine the status of the (very few) women they work with. A lot of women keep quiet and accept this, out of fear they&rsquo;ll be sacked, or from shame.	turn-off	journalism	Asma Khan	&ldquo;They put her in the fridge and touch her up&rdquo;: Is the restaurant world having its #MeToo moment?"		29 January 2019	The Telegraph																				

I know of one very young and innocent woman who complained to the female owner of a top restaurant about bullying from the male chefs. It was the victim who was sacked from her job. 	throw	journalism	Asma Khan	&ldquo;They put her in the fridge and touch her up&rdquo;: Is the restaurant world having its #MeToo moment?"		29 January 2019	The Telegraph																				

Asking the industry to clean up its language along with its behavior really is the bare minimum.	wash	journalism	Jen Agg	&ldquo;It&rsquo;s not Just &lsquo;Kitchen Talk,&rsquo; it&rsquo;s Abuse&rdquo;		6 September 2018	Eater New York																				

Another female chef suffered severe burns to her hands when a male chef threw a boiling piece of meat across the kitchen at her face. In shielding her face, it was her hands that got seared.	flip	journalism	Asma Khan	&ldquo;They put her in the fridge and touch her up&rdquo;: Is the restaurant world having its #MeToo moment?"		29 January 2019	The Telegraph																				

So how, you might wonder, have these men got away with it so long? Some people point to the high pressure working conditions, the long hours and the stressful environment, that makes many top kitchens hellholes of abuse.	mix	journalism	Asma Khan	&ldquo;They put her in the fridge and touch her up&rdquo;: Is the restaurant world having its #MeToo moment?"		29 January 2019	The Telegraph																				

Anyone questioning this necessary advancement is doing so from a place of fear - fear of power loss, fear of the unknown, and the extremely lazy fear of having to learn not to call people objectively derogatory names, or you know, harass them.	adjust	journalism	Jen Agg	&ldquo;It&rsquo;s not Just &lsquo;Kitchen Talk,&rsquo; it&rsquo;s Abuse&rdquo;		6 September 2018	Eater New York																				

The pressure in a kitchen is intense, that&rsquo;s for sure. But if abusing someone else is your reaction, you ought to be in therapy and not working there at all. There still exists a culture of heavy drinking and drug-taking, but again it can&rsquo;t explain away the problem &mdash; although it&rsquo;s arguably yet another symptom.	check	journalism	Asma Khan 	&ldquo;They put her in the fridge and touch her up&rdquo;: Is the restaurant world having its #MeToo moment?"		29 January 2019	The Telegraph																				

What lies behind this phenomenon is a culture where the head chef is king and operates within a network that&rsquo;s a boys&rsquo; club in essence.	insert	journalism	Asma Khan	&ldquo;They put her in the fridge and touch her up&rdquo;: Is the restaurant world having its #MeToo moment?"		29 January 2019	The Telegraph																				

[A]s though the right to exist without enduring blatant sexism is &ldquo;politics.&rdquo;	pour	journalism	Jen Agg	&ldquo;I am a Restaurant Owner. Why Aren&rsquo;t my Peers as Disgusted by Sexism as I Am?&rdquo;		31 January 2017	Eater New York																				

The celebrity chefs aren&rsquo;t immune &mdash; quite the contrary &mdash; because the greater their profile, the less likely are victims to complain. If the culprit was a nobody, you would slap them and leave. But if you slap a famous chef you might never work again.	shake	journalism	Asma Khan	&ldquo;They put her in the fridge and touch her up&rdquo;: Is the restaurant world having its #MeToo moment?"		29 January 2019	The Telegraph																				

Some female chefs have confessed to me they are even too ashamed to tell their parents or partners that they&rsquo;re having a hard time in their workplace. They fear being ostracised, losing their jobs, or failing to progress in their careers.	turn-off	journalism	Asma Khan	&ldquo;They put her in the fridge and touch her up&rdquo;: Is the restaurant world having its #MeToo moment?"		29 January 2019	The Telegraph																				

Indeed, many of the highly regarded female chefs in the industry today worked closely with male chefs before making it on their own. It&rsquo;s rare to see a woman succeeding on her own in the restaurant business.	adjust	journalism	Asma Khan	&ldquo;They put her in the fridge and touch her up&rdquo;: Is the restaurant world having its #MeToo moment?"		29 January 2019	The Telegraph																				

It takes a brave soul to object, especially when the owners of the restaurants are arguably complicit themselves.	flip	journalism	Asma Khan	&ldquo;They put her in the fridge and touch her up&rdquo;: Is the restaurant world having its #MeToo moment?"		29 January 2019	The Telegraph																				

Some female chefs visiting my restaurant break down in tears of disbelief: &ldquo;My God, there&rsquo;s no shouting here,&rdquo; they say. Yes, the working conditions in some restaurants can be brutal &mdash; but they don&rsquo;t have to be.	shake	journalism	Asma Khan	&ldquo;They put her in the fridge and touch her up&rdquo;: Is the restaurant world having its #MeToo moment?"		29 January 2019	 The Telegraph																				

Restaurants usually need more women working there, in part because there&rsquo;s safety in numbers. When surrounded by a gang of male chefs, a woman can easily grow isolated.	mix	journalism	Asma Khan	&ldquo;They put her in the fridge and touch her up&rdquo;: Is the restaurant world having its #MeToo moment?"		29 January 2019	The Telegraph																				

You need other people to stand by you, and what we need is a union of female chefs. To get our voices heard we must all come together and let everybody know this: you touch one of us and you deal with us all.	close	journalism	Asma Khan	&ldquo;They put her in the fridge and touch her up&rdquo;: Is the restaurant world having its #MeToo moment?"		29 January 2019	The Telegraph																				

The #MeToo movement is helping some folks, but restaurant workers are still suffering under abusive managers, owners (& restaurant grps). @BauerJournalism spent months reporting on Josh Schatan after some very brave women reached out"	take	socialmedia	Jen Sabella			11 October 2019																					

Every town has one of these bro-centric restaurants, the places that make everyday misogyny seem like a gentle caress, albeit an unwanted one.	peel	journalism	Jen Agg	&ldquo;I am a Restaurant Owner. Why Aren&rsquo;t my Peers as Disgusted by Sexism as I Am?&rdquo;		31 January 2017	Eater New York																				

In one incident that allegedly took place at a Downtown restaurant, a woman said the food industry veteran slapped her, dragged her by her hair and pushed her.	shake	journalism	Kelly Bauer	"Chicago Restaurant Manager Was Notorious For Abusing Women, Staff &mdash; And Hospitality Group Did Nothing For Years, Victims Say"		11 October 2019	Block Club Chicago																				

Although the restaurant industry employs only one-tenth of all workers...they account for nearly 40 percent of all complains filed with the Equal Employment Opportunity Comission.	fill	journalism	Lori Galarreta	&ldquo;How Suzanne Goin Runs her Kitchen in the #MeToo Era&rdquo;		9 July 2018	LAist																				

Creating a healthy environment is a logical extension of our hospitality&mdash;we can&rsquo;t provide the true, warm, open experience we want for our guests unless every one of our staff members and guests is safe and respected.	open	journalism	Caitlin Corcoran	What Does it Mean to Be Safe in a Restaurant?		7 February 2019	James Beard Foundation																				

I realized it was not enough just to intervene in a given moment at my establishment. I needed to go a step further and re-evaluate my business&rsquo;s policies on safety for both staff and guests.	check	journalism	Caitlin Corcoran	What Does it Mean to Be Safe in a Restaurant?		7 February 2019	James Beard Foundation																				

After 18 years in the industry, I am now in a place of power, and I see it as my responsibility to create the culture that I have always wanted to work in. I am proud to own an establishment that strives to make everyone feel safe.	adjust	journalism	Caitlin Corcoran	What Does it Mean to Be Safe in a Restaurant?		7 February 2019	James Beard Foundation																				

&ldquo;All these years we have been battling for a room of one&rsquo;s own,&rdquo; she wrote. &ldquo;Little did we know it, but we are still fighting for a seat at the table (or bar, to be strictly accurate).&rdquo;	fill	journalism	Flora Drury	Why are single women still mistaken for prostitutes?		21 January 2019	 BBC News																				

Alice, who was also a crew chief &mdash; or shift leader &mdash; at the restaurant, grew fearful that she would be ostracized if she complained to management.	remove	journalism	Kelly McLaughlin	"As #MeToo takes down alleged sexual harassers at the top levels of power, chain restaurants face fresh scrutiny"		7 March 2019	Insider																				

The alleged harassment included offensive sexual comments, groping, physical threats, and, in one instance, attempted forced oral sex with a management employee. Some of the female employees were teenagers at the time of the alleged harassment.	squeeze	journalism	Kelly McLaughlin	"As #MeToo takes down alleged sexual harassers at the top levels of power, chain restaurants face fresh scrutiny"		7 March 2019	Insider																				

According to an investigation by Vox, more than 60 workers at IHOPs and Applebee&rsquo;s restaurants across eight states filed sexual harassment lawsuits in federal court between 2010 and February 2018.	press	journalism	Kelly McLaughlin	"As #MeToo takes down alleged sexual harassers at the top levels of power, chain restaurants face fresh scrutiny"		7 March 2019	Insider																				

Sexual harassment continues to afflict the service industry more than any other private sector. According to the Center for American Progress (CAP), there are three times as many reported incidences of sexual harassment among hotel and restaurant workers than there are among manufacturing and healthcare industry employees.	pour	journalism	Kelly McLaughlin	"As #MeToo takes down alleged sexual harassers at the top levels of power, chain restaurants face fresh scrutiny"		7 March 2019	Insider																				

I was the &ldquo;perfect victim.&rdquo; I wasn&rsquo;t drunk or alone, I wasn&rsquo;t wearing a short skirt or a low-cut top, and I was surrounded by people I knew and trusted in a public place.	scoop	journalism	Ashley Goldsmith	&ldquo;My Coworkers Turned on me WhenI Reported a Chef to HR&rdquo;		14 November 2018	Eater New York																				

A 2014 study from the Restaurant Opportunities Centers United (ROC United) Forward Together revealed that 79% of women and 71% of men who were surveyed said they had experienced some form of sexual harassment from co-workers while working in the service industry.	pour	journalism	Kelly McLaughlin			7 March 2019	Insider																				

Not convinced non-competes are bad? Imagine that you&rsquo;re being sexually harassed at your restaurant job &mdash; but you can&rsquo;t leave your job because the fine print in your employment contract says you can&rsquo;t work other restaurants in your area. #MeToo	remove	socialmedia	Sejal Singh			24 April 2019																					

In the era of #MeToo, gender dynamics in some restaurant kitchens are finally changing	wash	socialmedia	Eater			4 November 2019																					

&ldquo;He had so much control, and he was so dominant and powerful, that I didn&rsquo;t feel like if I stepped away that I would survive.&rdquo;	close	journalism	Cathy Erway	Life After the Line-Cook Boys&rsquo; Club		31 October 2019	Eater																				

According to the United States Department of Labor, 41.8 percent of cooks in the U.S. were women in 2018. Also in 2018, in another study, it was shown that 71.1 percent of chefs and &ldquo;head cooks&rdquo; in the U.S. were reportedly male.	check	journalism	Cathy Erway	Life After the Line-Cook Boys&rsquo; Club		31 Octover 2019	Eater																				

The thinking behind the change was itself misguided - a human, not alcohol, attacked me. But the ramifications were worse. It was my community, rather than the man who hurt me, that made my life at work unbearable.	adjust	journalism	Ashley Goldsmith	&ldquo;My Coworkers Turned on me When I Reported a Chef to HR&rdquo;		14 November 2018	Eater New York																				

[Y]oung women...should not have to leave a good job because a cook continues to hit on her....	put	journalism	Kim Severson	&ldquo;Food Writing in the #MeToo Era&rdquo;		16 July 2018	The New York Times																				

We fought to get a leg up by being &lsquo;one of the guys.&rsquo; We partied with them, let some of them slap us on the ass. We learned that the real way of handling it and getting ahead was maintaining (if not even creating) the bro code. Sometimes WE started slapping people on the ass. And it was working. We were getting ahead!	insert	journalism	Naomi Pomeroy	"As a Chef and a Woman, I Regret Joining the Boys&rsquo; Club"		21 June 2018	Eater																				

But #MeToo ripped that apart. It showed us what we put up with for so long as normal is deeply, unequivocally wrong. We sort of knew it, but we were too busy emulating and living it.	flip	journalism	Naomi Pomeroy	"As a Chef and a Woman, I Regret Joining the Boys&rsquo; Club"		21 June 2018	Eater																				

Elizabeth Haigh (@the_modernchef) says the UK restaurant industry needs its own #MeToo moment (@women_food_wifi)	wash	socialmedia	Jemima Gibbons			1 May 2019																					

And one of the things that I&rsquo;m ashamed of is that I accepted it &mdash; we all did, all the women of my generation. It was transactional, right? You just took it for granted that men were going to come on to you.... We accepted it, and we should never have, but it was just the way of the world...I&rsquo;m so happy that women aren&rsquo;t accepting it anymore.	shake	journalism	John Birdsall	Q&A: Ruth Reichl on breaking through the machismo of restaurant and publishing worlds		3 April 2019	 Los Angeles Times																				

&ldquo;We endured it because we had to; we didn&rsquo;t have an option. If you went against it, you didn&rsquo;t have a job.&rdquo;	turn	journalism	Cathy Erway	&ldquo;Life After the Line-Cook Boys&rsquo; Club&rdquo;		31 October 2019	Eater New York																				

[I]f women are experts at recognizing predatory behavior because they are often targets, men are experts in recognizing when a woman is not interested because, if they&rsquo;re into women, odds are they&rsquo;ve been shot down a few times.	turn-off	journalism	Haley Hamilton	&ldquo;When you see a Stranger Being Creepy in a bar, the Worst Thing you can do is Nothing&rdquo;		1 April 2019	Eater New York																				

&ldquo;You know what I&rsquo;d love when I&rsquo;ve got a guy hounding me...another man to engage him in conversation...this takes the attention off of me, lets me move away if I want to...lets me, most importantly, know that you are not on his team, you are not his friend, and that I don&rsquo;t have to be afraid of you, too.&rdquo;	take	journalism	Haley Hamilton	&ldquo;When you see a Stranger Being Creepy in a bar, the Worst Thing you can do is Nothing&rdquo;		1 April 2019	Eater New York																				

Sometimes all it takes is a look: lock eyes with me for a minute and look towards the offender and then back at me. That nonverbal support speaks volumes. It lets me know you see what&rsquo;s happening and that you&rsquo;re on my team.	insert	journalism	Haley Hamilton	&ldquo;When you see a Stranger Being Creepy in a bar, the Worst Thing you can do is Nothing&rdquo;		1 April 2019	Eater New York																				

It lets me know you see what&rsquo;s happening and that you&rsquo;re on my team. It tells me that you&rsquo;re aware I shouldn&rsquo;t be left alone with this person and that, if you can help it, I won&rsquo;t be.	insert	journalism	Haley Hamilton	&ldquo;When you see a Stranger Being Creepy in a bar, the Worst Thing you can do is Nothing&rdquo;		1 April 2019	Eater New York																				

Bars are, most accurately, about community, and communities only thrive when all its members adhere to the same codes of conduct, when everyone is held to the same standards.	squeeze	journalism	Haley Hamilton	&ldquo;When you see a Stranger Being Creepy in a bar, the Worst Thing you can do is Nothing&rdquo;		1 April 2019	Eater New York																				

If he wanted her to cook for pigs he had only to say so. She knew how to cook for pigs and she knew how to cook for people.	adjust	literature	Kate Chopin	A Night in Acadie	14	1897	Way & Williams																				

No one who cooks, cooks alone. Even at her most solitary, a cook in the kitchen is surrounded by generations of cooks past, the advice and menus of cooks present, the wisdom of cookbook writers.	turn	literature	Laurie Colwin	Home Cooking: A Writer in the Kitchen	"""Preface"""																						

<strong>La cucina</strong> bears the scents of its past, and every event in its history is recorded with an olfactory memorandum.	pour	literature	Lily Prior	La Cucina		2000	Ecco		Ecco	2001																	

You wake up one morning married to a stranger who loves rye bread so dense you better duck if a loaf comes sailing towards you. 	throw	socialmedia	Michaele Weissman	"The Rye Bread Marriage, featured on The Splendid Table podcast"		Aired 27 February 2020	NPR																				

There ain&rsquo;t a body, be it mouse or man, that ain&rsquo;t made better by a little soup.	insert	literature	Kate DiCamillo	The Tale of Despereaux	233	2003	Candlewick Press																				

I don&rsquo;t believe in twisting yourself into knots of excuses and explanations over the food you make. 	squeeze	literature	Julia Child	My Life in France	71	2006	Alfred A. Knopf																				

You could learn everything about a couple just watching their kitchen choreography as they prepared dinner.	move	literature	Erica Bauermeister	The School of Essential Ingredients	60	2009	G. P. Putnam's Sons																				

[The kitchen] was also messy&mdash;delightfully so, thought Jane&mdash;and it didn&rsquo;t look as though lots of cooking went on there... This is the kitchen of a Thinker, she decided, and promised herself that she&rsquo;d never bother with cooking, either.	turn-off	literature	Jeanne Birdsall	The Penderwicks on Gardam Street	185	2008	Alfred A. Knopf																				

I want them to bite into a cookie, and think of me, and smile. Food is love. Food has a power. I knew it in my mind, but now I know it in my heart.	cut	literature	Jael McHenry	The Kitchen Daughter	272	2011	Gallery Books																				

Cook was something women did to nourish and nurture their families, whereas for men it was largely something they did professionally to gain money and status.	fill	literature	Padma Lakshmi	"Love, Loss, and What We Ate: A Memoir"		2013	Ecco																				

Tita knew through her own flesh how fire transforms the elements, how a lump of corn flour is changed into a tortilla, how a soul that hasn&rsquo;t been warmed by the fire of love is lifeless, like a useless ball of corn flour.	press	literature	Laura Esquivel	Like Water for Chocolate		1989	Doubleday																				

Food becomes a subtle way of showing intimacy.	turn-on	socialmedia	Obi Emelonye interviewed by Graihagh Jackson	"""Fantasy, fiction, and food,"" The Food Chain"	3:20		BBC																				

Zip it kiddo. Don&rsquo;t ever admit you know a thing about cooking or it&rsquo;ll be used against you later in life.	close	literature	Rebecca Wells	Little Altars Everywhere		1992	Broken Moon Press		HarperPerrenial	1996																	

She quickly jumped back in with her favorite part of cooking, the smells that would infuse the restaurant from  open to close.	fill	literature	Jenny Nelson	Georgia's Kitchen	267	2010	Gallery Books																				

I&rsquo;ve got a long history of scraping together little moments of peace in the midst of hardship, and cooking is a great way to do that.	peel	literature	Magaret Killjoy	The Lamb Will Slaughter the Lion	"""Five"""	2017	Tor																				

Cooking is about surrender.	empty	literature	Tembi Locke	"From Scratch: A Memoir of Love, Sicily, and Finding Home"	69	2019	Simon & Schuster																				

There&rsquo;s something brilliant about a recipe that doesn&rsquo;t ask too much of you; a recipe, in fact, where getting it exactly right would be exactly wrong; a recipe you can fiddle with, and tend to when you remember.	squeeze	literature	Ella Risbridger	Midnight Chicken: & Other Recipes Worth Living For	"""Imperfect Pikelets"""	2019	Bloomsbury																				

Baking calms me; it&rsquo;s stabilizing. It&rsquo;s what I do when I don&rsquo;t want to think about anything hard.	adjust	literature	Jenny Han	P.S. I Still Love You	18	2017	Simon & Schuster																				

I carried recipes in my head like maps. All kinds of recipes: torn from abandoned magazines in busy railway stations, wheedled from people on the road, strange marriages of my own confection.	take	literature	Joanne Harris	Chocolat	"""Wednesday, February 9"""	1999	Berkley Publishing																				

My Aunt Sara says it&rsquo;s in our blood, an innate need to tell a story through food. &rsquo;Buela says it&rsquo;s definitely a blessing, magic.	open	literature	Elizabeth Acevedo	With the Fire on High		2019	Hot Key Book																				

In the secret kitchen of my imagination I made them all, tested, tasted them, added to my collection of recipes wherever we went, pasted them into my scrapbook like photographs of old friends.	take	literature	Joanne Harris	Chocolat		1999	Berkley Publishing																				

I was happy to spend some time in the kitchen...I&rsquo;ve got a long history of scraping together little moments of peace in the midst of hardship, and cooking is a great way to do that.	mix	literature	Margaret Killjoy	The Lamb Will Slaughter the Lion	"""Five"""	2017	Tor																				

Good cooking is a form of benevolence. 	pour	literature	Dorothy Whipple	Because Of The Lockwoods		1949	John Murray		Persephone Books	2014																	

[There&rsquo;s a] point where you have to leave the dough alone. It&rsquo;s silly to anthropomorphize bread, but I love the fact that it needs to sit quietly, to retreat from touch and noise and drama, in order to evolve. I have to admit, I often feel that way myself.	put	literature	Jodi Picoult	The Storyteller	18	2013	Atria																				

&ldquo;I stuck my finger in his eye, he would not let my hair go. It was definitely about to be a murder. And it was going to be me.&rdquo;	press	socialmedia	"Sonya Kristina King, interviewed by Emily Thomas"	"""How dangerous is your food delivery?"" The Food Chain, 1:52"		31 October 2019	BBC																				

&ldquo;Everything was so fast but so slow at the same time. I could not believe that an actual grown man was trying to hurt me.&rdquo;	squeeze	socialmedia	"Sonya Kristina King, interviewed by Emily Thomas"	"""How dangerous is your food delivery?"" The Food Chain, 7:00"		31 October 2019	BBC																				

Do you think that [food delivery] is a dangerous job for women in particular? &ldquo;Yes. I do.&rdquo;	cut	socialmedia	"Sonya Kristina King, interviewed by Emily Thomas"	"""How dangerous is your food delivery?"" The Food Chain, 10:50"		31 October 2019	BBC																				

Cooking together creates a kind of intimacy that can be romance, or it can just be lovely and intimate.	open	socialmedia	Evan Kleiman	"""Cooking for two, dating sans alcohol, and edible underwear,"" Good Food, 1:-02"		8 February 2020	NPR																				